W-14604001 java17 landing page vh (#201)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade-api-policies-proxies.adoc

= Upgrade Java for API Policies and Proxies 

[[upgrading-automated-policies]]
== Upgrading Automated Policies

[upgrading-included-automated-policies]
=== Upgrading Included Automated Policies

> To upgrade xref:gateway::policies/policies-availability-by-gateway.adoc[MuleSoft included policies] to Java 17:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade xref:mule-gateway::policies-policy-overview.adoc[MuleSoft included policies] acting as automated policies to Java 17:
```

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't it be this link because this table shows all the included policies across Mule Gateway and all?
https://docs.mulesoft.com/policies/policies-availability-by-gateway

. In API Manager, go to *Automated Policies*.

> . Upgrade your automated policies:

Reviewer: I would suggest removing this line.

 .. In *Policy version*, select the latest version of the included policy.
 .. In *Rule of application*:
  * To apply automated policies to all Mule runtimes, select *All runtimes* and click *Apply*.
  * To apply the automated policies to Flex Gateways only, select *Flex Gateways only* and click *Apply*.
  * To apply automated policies to Mule Gateways only, select *Mule Gateways only*:

> . In *From version* and *To*, enter the Mule version range and in *Java versions*, select *All Java versions* or choose specific Java versions. 

Reviewer: Maybe this could be two lines.

* If you use Basic endpoint, deploy the adapted application to the server from Mule runtime and connect it to API Manager using autodiscovery. For more information, refer to <<Update Mule runtime docs in J17 landing page>>
* If you use a Basic endpoint API instance to update your instance, update the Mule application connecting to your API instance.

[IMPORTANT]
To ensure your API proxies or Mule apps are protected when upgrading, upgrade your API policies *before* upgrading your API proxies or Mule apps.

[[cloudhub-and-cloudhub2-deployments]]
=== CloudHub and CloudHub 2.0 deployments

Before following these steps, ensure your policies are updated. For more information, see <<Upgrading Policies>>. 

. In API Manager, go to *API Administration > Settings*.
. Edit the API instance's configuration settings:  
 .. In *Runtime Channel*, select the runtime channel to use.
 .. In *Version*, select *4.6.0*.
 .. In *Java version*, select *Java 17*.
 .. Click *Save & Apply*.

[[hybrid-deployments]]
=== Hybrid deployments

Before following these steps, ensure your policies are updated. For more information, refer to Upgrading Policies. 

> . Deploy Mule runtime engine 4.6 in a new server running on Java 17 and start the server.

Reviewer: Could we link to the docs for how to deploy this, should be here https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-manager/servers-create

. Add your proxy to the target running on Java 17.
. Select the new target you created running on Java 17 and in API Manager, go to *API Administration > Settings*.
. Edit the API instance’s configuration settings:
 .. In *Select target*, select the server running on Java 17 as the target.
 .. *Click Save & Apply*.
. After the server successfully runs on Java 17, shift your traffic gradually to the new server using load balancer and turn off the old server after all of its apps are migrated.

[[runtime-fabric-deployments]]
=== Runtime Fabric deployments 

Before following these steps, ensure your policies are updated. For more information, refer to Upgrading Policies. 

> . Deploy Mule runtime engine 4.6 to a new server running on Java 17 and start the server.

Reviewer: Could we link here https://docs.mulesoft.com/runtime-fabric/latest/proxy-deploy-runtime-fabric
